
*****************************************************************************************

# JSONRpc v XT2.2.2

*****************************************************************************************

Introduction
-----------------------------------------------------

This is a protocol based on Json aimed to be used by tcp socket or websocket
Please take care of the meaning of “could”, “may”, “should”, “must”, ... see [RFC 2119]

________________

Protocol version
-----------------------------------------------------

- **Version** : [Major.Minor.Revision]
- **Major** : Big change in the protocol
- **Minor** : Change are addition that can break the protocol but should avoid it. They must be documented in this document and described in the changelog.
- **Revision** : Small changes that can’t break compatibility with a minor revision, they are additions to that revision. Server should implement every revision of a protocol. If missing, the revision is 0.

If the server can’t understand the version requested by the client, it must send a notification to the client and log the issue.

________________

Package encapsulation
-----------------------------------------------------

### **Protocol layer : TYPE**

The type field specify the type of content of the body and if the package is routed or not

### **Protocol layer : SRC and DST**

Theses fields are used if the package is routed, routed package are forwarded by intermediates hosts to the destinations while non routed one are direct calls between hosts.
 
________________

Messages types
-----------------------------------------------------

### **HeartBeat**

In order to detect connections problems, the client has to send a heartbeat, the server will send a heartbeat ack with the same body.
The client may negotiate the heartbeat timeout, if the server has not received a heartbeat within that time, the server must close the connection as client is considered dead.

| Type        | Json                                     | Dir |
|-------------|------------------------------------------|-----|
| Send        | `{type : “hb”, body : “uuid”}`           |  C  |
| Ack         | `{type: “hbAck”, body : “uuid”}`         |  S  |
| Negotiation | `{type : “hbNegotiation”, body : “5000”}`|  C  |


### **Hello**

    {
        type:"hello",
        body : {name : "", ssid : "", version : "XT2.2.2"}
    }


On the first connection the ssid will be blank, when reconnecting, the client has to send his old ssid to re-validate his session. If the server consider that the client has to login he will send a requestLogin. In ALL cases, when the client is considered legitimate, the server will send a ssid package (the ssid could be the older one if revalidating the session but it  should be a new one).                         
In case of a hello packet without a ssid and the server has already a client with that name, depending on the project type, the server, in the ssid packet may send another temporary hostname to the client (hostname-1) to be used within that session to prevent domain name collision if hostname duplication is allowed.
If the version tag is missing, the server should assume that’s the version 2.0


### **RPC**

Remote procedure calls. This is the most customizable part of communication protocol.

    {  
        type:"rpc",  
        body:{  
            module:"<module_name>",          
            fct:"<function_name>",  
            params:[<...>]
        },  
        src:"<fqdn>",  
        dst:"<fqdn>"
    }  

- Note that the modules define a function sets, each application uses different modules to describe its functionality. See details below.
- Callback field is optional, if present the callee must send any response to this module/fct

**Examples**

- Message from subclient1.client1.server to server

    `{type : "rpc", body : {}, src : "subclient1.client1.server" dst : "server" }`

- Message from server to subclient1.client1.server

    `{type : "rpc", body : {}, src : "server", dst : "subclient1.client1.server" }`

- Call to other process in the same device

    `{type:"rpc", body:{}, src:"subclient2.client1.server", dst:"subclient1.client1.server"}`
	

### **Notification**

    {
        type:"notification",
        body:{
                title:"<message title>",
                message:"<notification content>",
                msgtype: <integer>,
                priority: <integer>,
                data: [] (optional),
                bell: <bool> (optional default to false),
                ts: <integer> (optional)
        },
        src:"<fqdn>",
        dst:"<fqdn>"
    }

**Priority levels**

| Priority | Description         |
|----------|---------------------|
| 1        | Fatal error         |
| 2        | Error               |
| 3        | Warning             |
| 4        | Message             |
| 5 +      | Application defined |


**Message types**

| Type | Description             |
|------|-------------------------|
|  1   | Normal Notification     |
|  2   | MessageBox Notification |


**Examples** 

- Request from server to subclient1.client1.server
    `{type : "notification", body : {title:"", message : "", priority : integer}, src : "server", dst : "subclient1.client1.server" }`


### **Session**

**Login**

    {
        type : "session",
        body : { 
            fct: "login", 
            params : ["<user>", "<password>", "<hostname>"]
        }
    }

**Logout**

    {
        type : "session",
        body : { 
            fct: "logout", 
            params : []
        }
    }


### **RequestLogin**

    {
        type:"requestLogin",
        body:{
             message:"<notification content>",
             code: <integer>
        }
    }
	
| Code | Meaning                                  |
|------|------------------------------------------|
|  1   | Login Required                           |
|  2   | Logout                                   |
|  3   | Login Error                              |
|  4   | Invalid session                          |


The request login message is send when the server need a login from the client to be able to communicate. On each message sent by the client. When the client send a logout, the server send a request login to that client

In case of login error an other requestLogin will be sent


### **State**

    {
        type:"state",
        body:{
            domain:"<my fqdn generated by the server>",
            tld: <bool>,
            logged: <bool>,
            ssid: <string>
        }
    }
	

- **When**
    * This message is broadcasted to clients when the connection state changes, the tld is available or not, the fqdn change, …
    * This message is also sent to a specific client when the host is accepted setting the ssid to a valid one.
- **Ssid**
    * If the client is not logged but the connection state change, the client will receive a "state" message but with a ssid empty or missing (see optional).
- **Optional**
    * Each key/value pair are optionals and can be sent only when the value change
    